Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about function pointer
applications
It's the first application is in dynamic binding. So a function
pointer provides an efficient way to bind function calls
at runtime.
Let us see how. First of all, the function execution is decided
in two ways
First method
is early binding, static binding or compile time binding. Here
we have used if statement to decide the proper function
that is if c equal to '+'
Then we call the function sum and if c equal to '%'
then we call the function mod. As in
the name it is static
So the compiler directly associates a function address to call
the function. Another way is dynamic binding or late binding
Or we can call it run time binding. Here
the required functions address is decided at runtime
Another application is that we can create generic functions using
function pointers
The perfect example is the built in quick sort function
The qsort function which has the arguments base address
of the array to be sorted, number of elements and
the size of each element and the comparison function which
compares two elements. Here
The comparator function is passed as a function pointer
using this function we can sort any data types
element and in any order
The plus point here is we can decide the comparison
function and can be returned based on our requirement
We just need to pass the address of our own
comparator to qsort function and it will do
the rest
The only requirement to the Comparator function is it should
take two pointer arguments say X and Y
So if we want to place both X and Y
equally we should return zero
If we want to place the value present in X
before the value present in Y we should return a
negative number
And finally if you want to place the value present in
X after the value present in Y, then we should return
a positive number
So let discuss an example
Let's sort these five elements 10 5 20 8 and 12
Using qsort function we should define our comparator function
Here
We have created cmpInt function and passing that function
address to sort
The elements
After the execution of qsort function the output will
be 5 8 10 12 20
We can sort the same elements in descending order
By changing our logic. Here we can interchange X and
y
Now if we pass this function address to qsort
function after the execution it will print the numbers in
descending order like 20 12 10 8 and 5
Likewise using the same qsort function we can sort
data of any data type see another example here
Here we are sorting structure student details based on age
by defining our own comparator function and passing it to
qsort function
Here we have defined our own comparator function named
cmpAge using the student age and passing it to
qsort function
So after the execution of qsort function the output
will be student details sorted in age order
As you can see here we can also sort student
structure based on roll number by defining our on comparator
function and passing it to qsort function
Here we have defined our own function named cmpRoll
using the student roll number and passing it to
qsort function
So here after the execution of this function the output
will be all the student details sorted in the order
of roll number
So that is how we can use function pointers to
write generic functions
And it can also be applied in dynamic binding
So that's all and thank you for watching this video